Added checkpoint quantum firewall integration (#16522)
DataDog/integrations-core: checkpoint_quantum_firewall/README.md

## Overview

> Check Point Next Generation Firewall is a security gateway that includes application control and IPS protection, with integrated management of security events. Additional features include Identity Awareness, URL Filtering, Anti-Bot, Anti-Virus, and Anti-Spam.

Reviewer: Could you add a link to their website?

Author: Done

## Setup

### Installation

To install the Checkpoint Quantum Firewall integration, follow the steps below:

> 1. [Install][5] the 1.0 release (`checkpoint_quantum_firewall==1.0.0`).

Reviewer: Could you add a section saying that this integration is shipped with the Agent by default with 7.52+? See https://github.com/DataDog/integrations-core/tree/master/tenable

Author: Done

### Configuration

#### Log collection

**Checkpoint Quantum Firewall:**

1. Collecting logs is disabled by default in the Datadog Agent. Enable it in the `datadog.yaml` file:

   ```yaml
   logs_enabled: true
   ```

> 2. Add this configuration block to your `checkpoint_quantum_firewall.d/conf.yaml` file to start collecting your Checkpoint Quantum Firewall logs.

Reviewer: Same comment as in https://github.com/DataDog/integrations-core/pull/16499/files#r1449968809

Author: Done

## Overview

> - Check Point Next Generation Firewall is a security gateway that includes application control and IPS protection, with integrated management of security events -- all in one appliance. Other Features include: Identity Awareness, URL Filtering, Anti-Bot, Anti-Virus, Anti-Spam etc.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Check Point Next Generation Firewall is a security gateway that includes application control and IPS protection, with integrated management of security events. Additional features include Identity Awareness, URL Filtering, Anti-Bot, Anti-Virus, and Anti-Spam.
```

## Setup

### Installation

> To install the Checkpoint Quantum Firewall integration follow the steps below:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To install the Checkpoint Quantum Firewall integration, follow the steps below:
```

> 1. [Install][5] the 1.0 release (`checkpoint_quantum_firewall==1.0.0`)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. [Install][5] the 1.0 release (`checkpoint_quantum_firewall==1.0.0`).
```

### Configuration

#### Log collection

**Checkpoint Quantum Firewall:**

> 1. Collecting logs is disabled by default in the Datadog Agent. Enable it in datadog.yaml:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Collecting logs is disabled by default in the Datadog Agent. Enable it in the `datadog.yaml` file:
```

   ```yaml
   logs_enabled: true
   ```

> 2. Add this configuration block to your checkpoint_quantum_firewall.d/conf.yaml file to start collecting your Checkpoint Quantum Firewall logs.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
2. Add this configuration block to your `checkpoint_quantum_firewall.d/conf.yaml` file to start collecting your Checkpoint Quantum Firewall logs.
```

   ```yaml
   logs:
     - type: tcp/udp
       port: <PORT>
       service: checkpoint_quantum_firewall
       source: checkpoint_quantum_firewall
   ```

3. [Restart the Agent][1].

> 4. Configuring Syslog Message Forwarding from Checkpoint Quantum Firewall

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
4. Configure Syslog Message Forwarding from Checkpoint Quantum Firewall:
```

>    1. Connect to the command line on the Management Server / Log Server:
>    2. Log in to the Expert mode.
>       - Enter your administrative credentials (After entering credentials, expert mode is enabled).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   1. Connect to the command line on the Management Server / Log Server.
   2. Login to the Expert mode. Enter your administrative credentials (after entering credentials, expert mode is enabled).
```

>    3. In order to configure new target for the exported logs enter the below commands:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   3. In order to configure a new target for the exported logs, enter the following commands:
```

      ```yaml
      cp_log_export add name <Name of Log Exporter Configuration> target-server <HostName or IP address of Target Server> target-port <Port on Target Server> protocol {tcp | udp} format json
      ```

>       - In above commands, specify Syslog Server Details:
>         Provide the following information:
>         - name: The Name of the syslog server. For instance: datadog_syslog
>         - target-server: The destination where you want to send the Checkpoint Quantum Firewall logs.
>         - target-port: The port on which the syslog server is listening (typically 514).
>         - protocol: Protocol name, which protocol will be used to send logs (tcp/udp).
>         - format: Format must be 'json'.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
      - In the commands above, specify the following Syslog Server Details:
 
        - name: The Name of the syslog server. For example: `datadog_syslog`.
        - target-server: The destination where you want to send the Checkpoint Quantum Firewall logs.
        - target-port: The port on which the syslog server is listening (typically 514).
        - protocol: The protocol name, or which protocol will be used to send logs (TCP/UDP).
        - format: Format must be 'json'.
```

>    4. In order to save and add syslog server configuration hit below command:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   4. In order to save and add the syslog server configuration, use the following command:
```

      ```yaml
      cp_log_export restart name <Name of Log Exporter Configuration>
      ```

>    5. For more details to configure syslog click [here][4]

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   5. For more information about configuring syslog, see the [official Checkpoint documentation][4].
```

### Validation

[Run the Agent's status subcommand][2] and look for `checkpoint_quantum_firewall` under the Checks section.

## Data Collected

### Logs

The checkpoint_quantum_firewall integration collects Firewall, URL Filtering, IPS, Identity Awareness, Application Control, Threat Emulation, Audit, Anti Ransomware, Anti Spam & Email Security, Anti Exploit, Anti Bot, Anti Virus, HTTPS Inspection, DLP, and Anti Malware logs.

### Metrics

> The checkpoint_quantum_firewall integration does not include any metrics.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The Checkpoint Quantum Firewall integration does not include any metrics.
```

### Events

> The checkpoint_quantum_firewall integration does not include any events.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The Checkpoint Quantum Firewall integration does not include any events.
```

### Service Checks

> The checkpoint_quantum_firewall integration does not include any service checks.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The Checkpoint Quantum Firewall integration does not include any service checks.
```

      ```
      sudo setcap CAP_NET_BIND_SERVICE=+ep /opt/datadog-agent/bin/agent/agent
      ```

    - Verify the setup is correct by running the `getcap` command:

      ```
      sudo getcap /opt/datadog-agent/bin/agent/agent
      ```

      With the expected output:

      ```
      /opt/datadog-agent/bin/agent/agent = cap_net_bind_service+ep
      ```

      **Note**: Re-run this `setcap` command every time you upgrade the Agent.

2.  [Restart the Agent][1].

#### Data is not being collected:

Make sure that traffic is bypassed from the configured port if the firewall is enabled.

#### Port already in use:

If you see the **Port <PORT-NO\> Already in Use** error, see the following instructions. The example below is for PORT-NO = 514:

On systems using Syslog, if the Agent listens for Checkpoint Quantum Firewall logs on port 514, the following error can appear in the Agent logs: `Can't start UDP forwarder on port 514: listen udp :514: bind: address already in use`.

This error occurs because by default, Syslog listens on port 514. To resolve this error, take **one** of the following steps:

- Disable Syslog
- Configure the Agent to listen on a different, available port

> For any further assistance, do contact [Datadog support][3].

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For further assistance, contact [Datadog support][3].
```

## Overview

[Check Point Next Generation Firewall][7] is a security gateway that includes application control and IPS protection, with integrated management of security events. Additional features include Identity Awareness, URL Filtering, Anti-Bot, Anti-Virus, and Anti-Spam.

> 

Reviewer 3: The opening paragraph is fine, but would like to have added: 
- what are some examples of logs?
- why would users want to ingest them into the platform?
- what benefits do they get from provided visualizations?

Author: Done

## Overview

[Check Point Next Generation Firewall][7] is a security gateway that includes application control and IPS protection, with integrated management of security events. Additional features include Identity Awareness, URL Filtering, Anti-Bot, Anti-Virus, and Anti-Spam.

> This integration ingests URL Filtering logs, Anti Bot logs, Application Control, Firewall, Identity Awareness, IPS, Threat Emulation and Miscellaneous event types with the integration log pipeline to enrich the logs and normalizes data to datadog standard attributes. This integration offers visualisations to gain detailed insights into allowed or blocked URL, bot details, insights into accessed application data, events generated by firewall, mapping between computer identities and machine IP address etc. via dashboards.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This integration ingests URL Filtering logs, Anti Bot logs, Application Control, Firewall, Identity Awareness, IPS, Threat Emulation, and miscellaneous event types with the integration log pipeline to enrich the logs and normalizes data to Datadog standard attributes. This integration offers dashboard visualizations with detailed insights into allowed or blocked URLs, bot details, insights into accessed application data, events generated by firewall, mapping between computer identities and machine IP address, and more.
```

      ```yaml
      cp_log_export add name <Name of Log Exporter Configuration> target-server <HostName or IP address of Target Server> target-port <Port on Target Server> protocol {tcp | udp} format json
      ```
      - In the commands above, specify the following Syslog Server Details:
 
        - name: The Name of the syslog server. For example: `datadog_syslog`.
        - target-server: The destination where you want to send the Checkpoint Quantum Firewall logs.
        - target-port: The port on which the syslog server is listening (typically 514).
        - protocol: The protocol name, or which protocol will be used to send logs (TCP/UDP).
        - format: Format must be 'json'.
   4. In order to save and add the syslog server configuration, use the following command:
      ```yaml
      cp_log_export restart name <Name of Log Exporter Configuration>
      ```
   5. For more information about configuring syslog, see the [official Checkpoint documentation][4].

### Validation

[Run the Agent's status subcommand][2] and look for `checkpoint_quantum_firewall` under the Checks section.

## Data Collected

### Logs

> The checkpoint_quantum_firewall integration collects Firewall, URL Filtering, IPS, Identity Awareness, Application Control, Threat Emulation, Audit, Anti Ransomware, Anti Spam & Email Security, Anti Exploit, Anti Bot, Anti Virus, HTTPS Inspection, DLP, and Anti Malware logs.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The Checkpoint Quantum Firewall integration collects Firewall, URL Filtering, IPS, Identity Awareness, Application Control, Threat Emulation, Audit, Anti Ransomware, Anti Spam & Email Security, Anti Exploit, Anti Bot, Anti Virus, HTTPS Inspection, DLP, and Anti Malware logs.
```

Author: Done

### Metrics

The Checkpoint Quantum Firewall integration does not include any metrics.

### Events

The Checkpoint Quantum Firewall integration does not include any events.

### Service Checks

The Checkpoint Quantum Firewall integration does not include any service checks.

## Troubleshooting

**Checkpoint Quantum Firewall:**

> #### Permission denied while port binding:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
#### Permission denied while port binding
```

Author: Done

If you see a **Permission denied** error while port binding in the Agent logs, see the following instructions:

1.  Binding to a port number under 1024 requires elevated permissions. Follow the instructions below to set this up.

    - Grant access to the port using the `setcap` command:

      ```
      sudo setcap CAP_NET_BIND_SERVICE=+ep /opt/datadog-agent/bin/agent/agent
      ```

    - Verify the setup is correct by running the `getcap` command:

      ```
      sudo getcap /opt/datadog-agent/bin/agent/agent
      ```

      With the expected output:

      ```
      /opt/datadog-agent/bin/agent/agent = cap_net_bind_service+ep
      ```

      **Note**: Re-run this `setcap` command every time you upgrade the Agent.

2.  [Restart the Agent][1].

> #### Data is not being collected:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
#### Data is not being collected
```

Author: Done

Make sure that traffic is bypassed from the configured port if the firewall is enabled.

> #### Port already in use:

Author: Done
